# Dealing with Fixed Width Files in Pandas
Pandas have basic functionality to deal with fixed width files. This project is intended to provide additional knowledge commonly related to this type of files.


## What are fixed width files?
Are files in which the data are structured in columns and lines with a fixed number of characters. The file layout is called 'copybook' and is defined in a .cob file.
```
001000   10 RECORD-HEADER.
001010      20 RECORD-TYPE                      PIC 99.                 1-2
001020      20 DATE                             PIC 9(8).               3-10
```
* The first numbers are a sequence. historically increased by a factor of 10 to
allow future insertions between the lines
* the second number is a hierarchy definition, in our scenario we use just two levels, the group level and the column level
* RECORD-HEADER with a dot indicates a abstraction of a table. In a native copybook it's common to have more than one 'table' defined in a copybook, but for files it's usual to have data from just one 'table'. Imagine this as a Sheet label.
* The second level (20) defines the columns of values
* Name of the columns (like record-type, date, etc)
* PIC define the data type and layout of the data. (9 or N indicates numbers, X alphanumeric fields, etc )
* The letter V defines the number of decimal places for numeric values
* The numbers in the end shows the start and end position of the data (1 based)


## Where those files are used?
Nowadays most of those files are generated in 'legacy' software most of the times created by 'mainframe' computers or files generated by other platforms but that must be processed by mainframes

## How to run the test file
Just open the test.ypnb and run the first cell.

## FixedWidthSeries.py
This file defines extra attributes for a fixed width column. The 

## FixedWidthFile.py

